# SNHU-CS-360

**Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?**<br />
The Event Tracker app has two databases, one to store user login credentials, and another to store events to keep track of. On the login screen the user has the ability to add new users to the login credential database, as well as an option to help a user remember their password if they forgot it. Once logged in users have the ability to add new events, as well as the ability to turn on the ability to get text notifications when an event happens. Once an event is added the user can then edit and remove events as well. There is also an option to delete all the events.

**What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?**<br />
This app has a login screen and the main screen to display the event tracker list. In addition to these it also has screens for adding a new user and adding a new event to their respective databases. Access to the page to add a new user comes from the login screen to allow new users to get access to the app after adding themselves into the user database. The new event screen is accessible through a button centered at the bottom of the main screen, allowing the user to look at their event list and if they see they need to add something they can add it easily from there.

**How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?**<br />
Coding my app I worked from where the user would access the app in. So I started with the login screen as this would be the first thing the user would interact with. I worked thorugh all the items needed for the login process, including the database and my class to build a user item before it's added to the database, before I started working on the event tracker. I worked in a similar order through the event tracker with the database and event class to hold the event items. Through all this I used coding best practices and made sure to comment my code and keep my variables self explanatory to make the code as readable as possible.

**How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?**<br />
I was able to test my app on my phone to make sure that everything worked and would be intuitive to the user. This was important as it allowed my to see some quirks in my UI design where colors didn't quite work or I had missed a constraint on a widget so it was misalligned. It also let me manipulate all the buttons from a phone like the user would use the app. This let me see that some of my buttons while they looked good, weren't all that easy to reach when holding the phone. Testing in this way let me make the best app I could when it came to user functionality.

**Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?**<br />
The area I had to innovate came when I was building the UI in Android Studio. It was my first time using Android Studio and XML so it took some getting used to. But once I was used to it I found Android Studio to be a powerful yet incredibly easy to use tool to build a user interface. I think it's particularly helpful to see what things look like as you go along the build process.

**In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?**<br />
I was particularly happy with how the databases worked in this app. I have used NOSQL databases before and enjoyed the process of working with that so it was nice to be able to work with a SQL database system and get experience making not one but two of these databases and see them function as intended.
